[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Remember we talked about
functions being an early unit of scope,
it turns out that as of ES6,
we're getting this exciting new thing
called Block Scope, and it's coming
to us via a new keyword called let.
Let is gonna be a cousin
to the var keyword, okay?
So just like we can do var a equals 2,
we can do let a equals 2.
And when we use the let keyword,
it will implicitly hijack the scope of
whichever block we happen to be in, and
it will add that variable to that block
rather than to the enclosing function.
Question.
>> Speaker 2: There's
a question from Derek W.
Is there any difference if you put
the invoking parentheses inside or
outside the expression parenthesis?
>> Kyle Simpson: Good question.
Especially since a lot of
people like to follow Doug.
The question, Doug Crockford,
the question here is line three.
I could have written, and this is one
where I'm gonna have to use the arrows,
so you might wanna pan to this camera.
But, on line three I could
have had this parenthesis, you
see how I have the parenthesis around the
function, and then I execute the function?
I could have instead taken that
parenthesis right there on line eight and
moved it to the outside so
that there was an execution inside, and
just a non functioning outer
wrapper parenthesis pair.
And that actually,
that second format is argued for
by Doug Crockford, and this,
obviously, is my preferred form.
I'll just give you the two
ways of thinking about it and
you decide which one you like.
They are functionally
basically equivalent.
There are a couple, I just saw a blog post
the other day where there's a couple of
weird cases that if you leave off
semi-colons, this pattern is more robust
than Doug Crockford's pattern, but
they're functionally basically the same.
Here's the stylistic reason why
you choose one or the other.
Doug Crockford, pardon my French here.
But Doug Crockford calls this hanging
paren, actually more appropriate than,
let me go back to slide 23.
He calls this hanging pair of parenthesis
that hangs outside donkey balls.
Kind of like those people that
drive around with the trucks and
those things hanging off the back.
He doesn't like the look of it.
He doesn't like the parenthesis
sitting on the outside.
He likes to put them on the inside, okay.
That's why he stylistically
says you should do that.
Really, actually, the truth is the reason
why he doesn't want to do that is because
the fact that we have to wrap our function
in a parenthesis is kind of annoying.
Grammatically speaking, it might be nice
that we could just declare a function and
at the end of the declaration
just put a parenthesis pair.
Just execute the declaration right away.
That would be nice if we could
grammatically do that but
that's not possible with the way
the JavaScript grammar works.
And so we have to put the wrapping
pair of parenthesis on there,
just to get around that
grammatical problem.
And so he says if we have to put
the parenthesis pair on there to get
around the grammatical problem,
why not put them on the outside,
rather than leaving
the donkey balls hanging out?
So that's,
I'll get to the question in just a moment.
That's the reasoning
that Doug Crockford uses.
Doug Crockford, in brief.
Doug Crockford's reasoning for
this style choice is that,
we only have to put the parenthesis
there as a nod to grammar.
Theoretically, we would want just the open
close parenthesis in the end without
the wrapping parentheses,
but we can't grammatically.
So if we have to put
a wrapping parentheses there,
let's make it on the outside rather
than this weird donkey ball style.
Okay, so that's his reasoning,
it's a valid stylistic choice.
I don't agree with it, but
Here's my reasoning for
why I like this better.
Because I actually like the fact,
as I kinda referenced earlier,
I kinda like the fact that
this is a nod to Lispy syntax.
To me,
this is clear that I'm putting a function,
a function value, on to my expression
stack by wrapping it in a parenthesis,
and then I'm immediately executing
the value on my expression stack.
And we do that in other
places without functions, so
I like the fact that this sort of in
a least sense as treating a function
as any old value that we can deal with.
So that's my preference for
why I like this style, these are just
stylistic choices and not functional once.
I hope that clarifies
the questions on this string.
>> Speaker 3: Don't we need to give
a name to that function or something.
>> Kyle Simpson: We are [INAUDIBLE]
functions questions.
They said we ought to name it IIFE or
whatever.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: Just to be short.
The idiomatic way is everybody
does an autonomous IIFE, and
I just think we ought to do named IIFE,
so.